# Humming In The Dark

{⏳ Krom,Hīkoi Period,Portable pestles,📜 myths and stories}

***[Date: ~pc2,400|Passage Consideration]***

Scuttling about in the dark, his hand brushed over something smooth. A momentary pause was had, and panic rose up in his chest for but a moment. He pounded it back down with as much mental force as possible, and slowly crept his other hand towards his side lantern. Withdrawing for a moment, he lit the wick, and low orange brilliance scattered about the cramped cave. Aware of the time limit he had just imposed upon himself, he reached up, back towards the flat surface he had fumbled across. In a half-heave, half-lunge motion, he pulled himself up and over the surface. He quickly righted himself and, crouching now as to not bump his head on the fractal roof of the cave, knelt on the almost shelf-like flat protrusion. He studied it but for a moment, its black and very slightly transparent surface humming with the premonition of its contents. His prize, and a large one at that. Reaching from behind, he produced a long curved instrument. Speaking the arcane words, now familiar to him after months of practice, the arc-beam crackled from end to end of the arched tool. Immediately, he set to work holding the beam down flat against the glass-like surface. The humming from within intensified, almost to a fever pitch, and with his last ounces of stretch applied, the flatness below him crunched and shattered.

He now knelt in about 10cm of very cold liquid, almost paste-like in thickness. He wasted no time, reaching into the pool, pushing aside bits of broken shards. His hands grasped object after object. Compasses, half-eaten loaves of bread, small devotional figures, a child's wicker ball, three glass eyes, and many more such trinkets. Each find was quickly stashed in his bag, leaving a thick and dark residue on his hands and pack. All that could be easily scavenged was, and before long, the pool was nearly empty. One final grope around was met with the iron-wrought hilt of some stave or halberd. This was the last item to be wrenched from the muck before he hastily climbed back down, landing amidst the cracked stone and uneven floor. Immediately, he shut off his lantern and, knowing the returning path well, proceeded down the corridors. He had not made it 3 minutes before he heard the crackling behind him. Running faster now, as the sound approached, he could see the cave system collapsing in and out of reality. Making it to the [Pestle|🚪 pestles] Door in just enough time, he flung himself across its barrier, and landed soundly on soft-grassed ground. Not 3 seconds later, the Door had shuddered, wracked its form, and crumped up completely.

Dusting himself off, he tied the oblong metal staff to the underside of his pack, and rolled up the Door as if a carpet *(see [Portable pestles])*, and started his trek down the hill towards the village. Another successful trip, and completed with not a moment to lose. Who knows what [⏳ Krom] would give to him next? Only time would tell.
