# Open Vantage

{⛰️ Yadri,🔒 private,Aetivima Period,📜 myths and stories}

***[Date: pc926|Passage Consideration]***

Falltime was waning, and the winter colds were starting to set in around the footholds of the Bruevar mountains. However, sunlight still clung to the snow in great swaths, and the vantage was far from obscured. For this, Adreat was thankful. For her short life of twelve winters, she’d studied and been raised on these spires, cared for by her grandmother and her father. The Bruevar were a collection of three squat but pointed mountains along the southern bank of the great Braurun mountain range. She had been born here, and voyages down towards the base of the hills were far and few between. Nested quietly about the base of the range were deep quagmires where fell beasts dwelt. Or so she was told. Her father, the Mat-Allister of these Bruevar Mountains, was native to those lands and so often wove tales and spun charms which told of dark lurking eyes between the fading trees. He spent most of his time walking lightly in the deep and silent places of the mountain, and so Adreat was only with her father when he returned from the mountain for supper in the evenings. Her grandmother, or Greemaw, was her one and only guide to the life and temperament of the peaks she inhabited. She was a wise and powerful teacher, for she had been bestowed a birthright of immense physical strength from their ancestors; a gift of forebears. Though Adreat had no such gift, nor the arcanity of a Mat-Allister, she was learning and would assume her Greemaw’s duties in ample time.

For the past three and a half weeks, they had been preparing for the oncoming of winter. In some weeks time, winds from great deserts and far flung seas beyond imagination would carry cold and harsh winds to the Dorminndar range, and all would be engulfed in threshing sleet. During the long winters, Adreat and her family would gather their summer and falltime placements and retreat up to the safety of the high grottos and caves. The antler-sheep and sextupedal mountain goats would be released for the year, and food, milk, and other provisions would be stashed. In those dark months, they would be sealed away deep inside the forgotten tombs of their predecessors. Adreat’s father had once told her that their lineage deep down in and around the Bruevar mounts was so ancient that if you followed it back further enough, it would be indistinguishable from the very roots of the mountains.

For the past two years, Adreat had accompanied her Greemaw for one of the final tasks before their ascent: the collection of fresh water to be stored for winter. For fear of contamination by the encroaching wastelands that ringed the mountains, only the snow on the high and shining peaks could be stored. However, this year, desperation clung fast to her father and her Greemaw’s faces. The summer had been lackluster and windy, and the usually plentiful antler-sheep herds had been shallow. Because of this, her Greemaw spent more than half of her day hunting other mountain game to be cured, smoked, and stored for the winter. This was how the task fell solely to Adreat. To climb high towards the peaks, and bring down the pure snow that fell there.

They had bided their time, and waited for a proper sunny day to send her up. Lo it came, one early morning when a brilliant sun crested the jagged horizon. Adreat set off at once, so that she might get a head start if the weather was to change throughout the day. Though her Greemaw wasn’t joining her, she wouldn’t send her granddaughter up the mounts alone. Adreat was to bring Neraline, their mariarch sextupedal goat, with her to help carry skins of snow back down. Her six hooves, perfectly adapted to the shale and ice of the mountain, would guide the pair along their trek. Leaving the falltime encampment, they wound up the gooseberry bath. Passing these semi-cultivated bushes and tinkling shrines with burning incense, they rose. An hour later and all but a few purposefully cut trail blazes, placed there by Adreat’s great-great-uncle, marked their climb. Soon they reached [Goleade|Voquev Gol'iead], Last Shrine To Open Vantage, and this was their sign to start making their way unguided. By now, they had been scaling the dwindling footholds for three hours, and breathing had become tiresome. Adreat was familiar with this sensation; her father had once told her that the reason that the mountains choke nearer to their summits was because that’s where their memories were. She had not understood her father, but she believed every word he said. Behind them the sky was hazy with fog, and far across the tops of the spires, she could see rain falling. Or was it sleet? She couldn’t tell. Pressing into Neraline’s wool, she guided her faster.

They had been passing snow for some time now, but still Adreat was worried that it wouldn’t be pure enough. They would make for the small plateau ahead, rest for a quarter of an hour, then make the final push to the summit. Upon reaching the flat outcropping, there was barely enough room for her and Neraline to rest, but it was enough. Around them was only rock, snow, and sky. The last trace of animal life had disappeared an hour ago, and human long before that. All she could see now was the rolling snow-fog and occasional lower mountain summit. Somewhere deep and quiet, thunder rumbled. Adreat knew that ignoring it would do no good, only preparation and good constitution would help them now. After a small bite, Adreat with some old and tough lamb, and Neraline with old and tough roots, they continued. So close they were now, and the top was in sight. A hundred paces and they would halve the distance. Fifty paces to halve that. Twenty-five to in turn halve that. Now, and only now, were they stopped. They were so high that only the Dormunn Spires to the north and the Sødar Mount to the west could be seen. As only her grandmother, great-great-uncle, and great-great-great-grandfather had done before her, she rung the small golden bell that was fastened to the coronet of the mountain. She heard no sound but knew that an identical bell, placed down within the antechamber of the mountain caves would be ringing at that very moment, signalling her climb’s success to her father and grandmother.

Now was the time. She hastily began shovelling bright white snow into the sheepskins draped and hung from Neraline’s back. Even packing it as tightly and quickly as she was, it was a slow task. For half an hour now, the far and deep rumbling of a sleet thunder storm had been growing louder and closer. Both climbers were aware of this fact, and were beginning to worry. Neraline’s shuffling hooves belayed her nervousness. The moment that the last skin had been packed tight and secured, Adreat begane hastening them back down. The trip down was by far the most dangerous part of the task. Wet shale, hidden ice, and indistinguishable plant growth were mighty adversaries. While the six feet of the native mountain goat were borne for traversing exactly such a terrain, Adreat’s reinforced leather high-tops here having some difficulties. By now, extremely cold raindrops had started to fall on their backs, and the two had to slow down even more. Suddenly and cacophonously, a great white hot scream of lightning careened into the black stone not metres from their feet, and in less than a second everything changed. Stone, fire, snow, and hair clouded Adreat’s vision while she was flung into the air. Caught on hot winds suctioned up from lower on the mountain, she was spun and almost held momentarily in the gust. Then she was dropped. Hard.

She awoke, and all was white brilliance. Climbing up through the snow, the way her grandmother had taught her, she erupted in a dark chaos. It was night now, and the great sweeping arms of a snowy tempest raged about her on the mountaintop. Above and around, they seemed to form great beasts of the mountain, unthinkable in form. Steadying her soul and her mind, she peered through the wailing storm, searching for her hircine companion. Some hundred metres below her, she spied Neraline. She was huddled and small against what could one have been an outcropping of stone, and was now only a charred and jagged edge of rubble. In the midst of her climb down to Neraline, Adreat absentmindedly noted that the rocks where the great bolt of lightning had struck were still warm to the touch.

The tempest covered their tracks back up almost immediately after they made them, but their direction was clear. Down. Down to warmth, down to family, down to survival. Progress was unbearably slow, as great swaths of burning hail careened at mach speed into their flesh. It was only after an hour of climbing that Adreat realized she was screaming. She didn’t stop. Amid the dread chorus of flying snow, rolling thunder, and her own hoarse wails, she suddenly recognized the harmony. Great gusts and the very furrowed brow of the mountains were twisting and mingling to the sound of her guttural screams. Adreat could feel as sleet and rock passed above, below, and through her. With no understanding or control of her newfound sense, she plunged headfirst into it, breaking open her mind and her body. Blood flung from between her knuckles and under her eyes, and an avalanche of chanting carried the girl and the goat to the brink of unconsciousness. Flashes of light and slow dotted Adreat’s memory as her body and soul, and that of her sextupedal goat companion, were lost to the mountain’s roar. Passing through stone, sky, and ice, they rocketed down the spire.

In the coming months, her Greemaw and her father would tell the story of how Adreat and Neraline had appeared the next early morning unscathed, on the doorstep of the mountain cave system. Adreat herself had no recollection of events that passed after she lost consciousness the second time on the mountain. As for the storm, she was told that a great cloud of fog and snow had formed about the peak not long after the bell had rung, and had all but completely disappeared by the morning light. In the coming days, Neraline rejoined the herd, and stayed with them in the winter months while Adreat and her family were up in the caves. The following year, in late summer, she died peacefully in old age. Many summers and many winters would pass before another would be trained to scale the mountain peak again. For that time, it was Adreat only who undertook the task each year. Though there were storms, they never seemed to trouble her. She knew now the secrets of the mountain, for it had told them to her in that black place during the descent. A gift, different to those given to her now old father and late Greemaw continued to guide her. Occasionally she would delight her own grandchildren by awakening the winds and snow around them during bitter autumn nights. When she died at the old mountain folk age of seventy three, her bones and her light quieted and melded with those of the mountain from which she had come, and she was one again with her ancestors.
