# The Monk on The Winding Road

{The Winding Road,Hīkoi Period,📜 myths and stories}

***[Date: ~pc4,000|Passage Consideration]***

The Monk was walking steadily down [The Winding Road], following its well-trodden footpaths, shortcuts, and deviations. The day was bright, and the cold in the air bit playfully against his skin. He had been walking through the night, though he was not tired. The Winding Road had a way of carrying one along, as if on some unseen current. Beside The Monk walked his spirit. His mental image, alike in both mannerism and in form. The two kept each other company, and often commented on the various things that they saw while walking. It was naught but a few hours after the sun had risen and The Monk was passing down the backside of a rolling mountain that he passed a group of merchants. As they approached, they nodded to The Monk. He in turn reciprocated, as did his spirit, though the merchants could not see it. The merchants stopped to ask The Monk directions, as they had been traveling for some time, and had yet to pass by a town or city in which to sell their goods. The Monk told them that he had passed a small mountain hamlet not two peaks back, and that if they hurried they might make it by nightfall, though one could never be certain when walking on The Winding Road. The merchants thanked The Monk, and gave him bread and oil, as was the custom. The monk nodded to them again, as did his spirit, and he carried onwards. The Monk ate the bread as he walked, and offered the oil to his spirit as a ceremonial gesture. His spirit politely declined. The Monk told his spirit how thankful he was to have been met with such kind folk. His spirit agreed, and mentioned how rare that was these days.

Sometime later, The Winding Road on which The Monk was walking diverged. The Monk stopped at the crossroads, unsure of which path to take. His spirit, contrarian in nature, wanted to take the right path which appeared to lead back up and along the mountain. The Monk however was hesitant. He thought that the left path, which appeared to lead down towards the valley, was the proper one. And so, The Monk and his spirit sat down on two rocks nestled beside the fork in the road, and contemplated. The Monk's spirit reminded him that The Winding Road was fickle, and that the left path that appeared to be proper might in fact lead them completely astray. The Monk agreed that yes, The Winding Road was fickle, however he mentioned that the fickler thing still would be if the proper-looking left road was in fact the proper one. At this, his spirit fell silent, thinking. They both mused for some time, and came to the eventual conclusion that their discussion could very easily become cyclical. They had been sitting, and talking, and grumbling for some time near the fork in the road when suddenly an old Aspen Ghost walked out from the brush. The Aspen Ghost came and sat next to The Monk's spirit, and struck up a conversation with it. The Monk himself could not understand a word of what The Aspen Ghost was saying, but his spirit appeared to be having a good conversation. After some time, The Monk's spirit told him that The Aspen Ghost knew which way to go, but would only tell them if he could be given a proper place to rest. The Monk stood then, nodding to The Aspen Ghost, and walked over to a small forest grove next to the fork in the road. He gently ripped aspen saplings and ferns from the ground, and returned to the fork in the road. He bundled the saplings and ferns together, and wedged the bundle into the top of a pile of stones. He lit the bundle ablaze, and stood back to admire his work. The Aspen Ghost clapped his hands, though of course no sound came out, and beamed at The Monk. The Monk's spirit informed The Monk that The Aspen Ghost was very satisfied with the resting place, and would show them the correct path. The Aspen Ghost sauntered off down the left path, beckoning The Monk and his spirit to follow. The Monk winked to his spirit, and followed down after The Aspen Ghost.

That evening, The Monk and his spirit had nearly reached the end of The Winding Road. They could see the glitter of the port town near the curving bay, and were both content. They swapped riddles and marched in time, happy to keep each other company. As the night fell, many of the region's fireflies filed in on either side of The Winding Road, following steadily behind The Monk and his spirit. The Monk greeted each firefly in turn, complimenting them on their fine legs and gossamer wings. The fireflies were greatful, and stuck around to keep the path well lit for The Monk. After all of the formalities had been completed, the tiniest firefly piped up to ask The Monk where he was going. The Monk smiled and told the tiniest firefly that he and his spirit had been traveling for three months along The Winding Road, hoping in time to reach his favourite noodle bar near the coast. The tiniest firefly was puzzled, and asked The Monk why on earth he had been traveling for so long just for a noodle bar. The Monk replied simply that the noodles were very good. The tiniest firefly still didn't understand, but kept silent. Just as The Monk was approaching the gates of the port town, and the fireflies had begun to flit back into the bushes and trees, the fattest firefly asked The Monk what he would do after he got his noodles. The Monk replied simply that he would return home. Then The Monk turned, and walked hand in hand with his spirit through the gate and down into the busy port town street.
